So we gonna talk a little about,
we've dealt with like individual strings,
we've even had some observables
that will listen to others.
But now we're talking
about some strategies for
kind of combining and
merging multiple observables together.
Really great example if you think
about that counter we had before.
Yeah, we have the interval eventually
listen to the start and stop button but
those are kind of just two
sides of the same coin, right?
It'd be great if we could simply
like create a stream on whether or
not they've hit we should be going or not.
We have a version of that here.
This is kind of a quick tool that I built.
We'll see how to build like
a simplified version a little bit.
But a quick tool that I built to kind
of visualize a bunch of different
ideas observables together,
right, and as we kind of merged.
But we're gonna build a little bit
together before we use it cause right
now these buttons don't do anything.
So I'm gonna kind of get at least
a start and the pause working.
And this will be a little bit similar
to what we eventually kind of,
we've seen before and
we'll take it forward as we go along here.
Okay, so I've got the start and
let's actually grab the pause button
And they are each individual ones, now
what if I wanted to merge them together.
And then yeah, maybe start we want to
be yeah, I guess you should be running.
Pause, no, you should not be running.
That seems reasonable, right?
So we could theoretically take
each one and we could save .pipe.
Map to, map this one to true and we'll say
.pipe Map to and
we'll map that one to false.
And now we just want one stream of either
the true values or the false values.
So let's make a new observable.
And that's going to simply use a new
kind of creator we just have from event,
this one's called merge.
You take a lucky guess what it does,
it will merge two streams into one.
So we'll start with the start and
the pause and we'll merge them together.
And we'll even start with saying by
default, even before they click a button,
let's just start with false.
So we'll give it effectively like
a default value even before anything gets
admitted from either one of those events.
Great, and we'll start with
the simplest possible thing here we'll
say is running and
we'll subscribe to it, console log.
All right, the really cool thing here
is you'll notice that we didn't have to
subscribe to start and pause individually.
But we were able to kind
of merge them together and
when we subscribe to the merged stream,
we will effectively be subscribing to
the two child streams in this case.
So let's just verify that that
does what we think it does.
Starts out with false, it starts,
it says true, false, true,
great, everything kind of works.
At this point, instead of logging into the
console, I have this setStatus which is
gonna manipulate the DOM a little bit So
now you can see it starts,
it's paused, it's running,
it's paused, it's running, right?
Cuz it's based on what is
happening in that case.
So setStatus is basically,
we can look at it in the utilities but
it's like if true show running in
this div, if false show paused.
So we kind of get that functionality
out of the box for free.
Now, that's merge, and
there's a bunch of different ways that we
might want to deal with merging two times,
to timelines, right?
So what we're gonna kind of do is
play around with visualizing this.
You'll see, you can't really see them yet,
but there are three columns.
And so
we're gonna take two different streams,
we'll look at some of the different
strategies for merging them.
The first we will call our first
observable, the middle stream will be our
second observable, and the third one will
be our combined observable in this case.
So what happens when we merge
them in two different formats.
We saw merge, but you can imagine all it
does is it takes any of the children,
admit an event, merge,
shoots that event on through.
It's just combining two in
the simplest most direct fashion.
Have this little helper
function called Bootstrap and
all that does is utilities I've
got a little bit more complicated,
observable, we'll see
similar versions of it later.
That kind of just powers this whole
exercise, so we can visualize it.
So the only thing that I have to do at
some point is pass the three observables
to this Bootstrap function.
It is not ordinary extra thing, it is
simply to get this thing up and running.
So one of the things I wanna do is
just create three different streams.
I do have this helper called label with,
label with is simply it's annotating it
with the right class name and the label.
It's just basically doing So
I can visualize things it's
not part of our Ext JS.
I'm just mapping the value to have as
of actually a version of map to but
I also do the other things I need to
make them look their correct colors.
So if we flip over and
you clear this out you can see I can
start it runs one, two,
three and then it finishes.
So these are three independent streams but
combined is capable of bigger and
better things combined should be
the merge of these two, right?
So if we go ahead and we can kind
of replace this here we can say,
okay, merge first and
the second observable.
So now combined is any event that
comes through first, any event comes
through second is now combined,
merged into one observable stream.
So, let's take a look, yeah,
we have three streams going still.
We've got first which is
the first one independent.
Second which is the second one independent
and then combined which is both
the first and the second one
kind of merged into one stream.
With merge it should look basically like
the timer's are slightly are similar so
they could come in
a little bit interweaved.
But basically anytime either one
of them admits we should see it on
the combined stream as well, so
let's go take a look at that.
So we've got that,
we actually only need to call this
one merge I don't need to label it
Awesome so
you can see the color coded correctly,
they're all kinda coming into one
combined stream in this case.
And that might be what you want, right?
A lot of times, that is what you want,
like take these two things, for
our start or stop button.
We don't,
like whenever one of them happens,
pass it through to this combined stream.
And a lot of times that will solve for
the issue that you want.
But there are other strategies, and
we'll actually see some of these,
play out later.
Where you might want to have a little bit
more of an opinion on the order, right?
So, you might wanna say, hey,
I have these two streams,
three streams, 10 streams,
what have you, right?
I have these streams, what I wanna do
is play through all of the first one,
then play through the subsequent ones,
right?
And merge is not gonna do that for you,
merge is first come first serve, right,
whichever one admits it's
into the merge stream.
Concat is going to go ahead and say,
cool I want to run through
the first one to completion.
It's one stream we'll do
everything in the first stream,
we'll do everything in the second stream,
so on and so forth, right?
And you can do some interesting
coordination with this, which is,
okay, I want to do everything I need
to show the loading page, right?
Then I wanna do everything I need,
whatever is involved there, I don't care.
I wanna play through the first scene.
We'll do everything for the second scene,
everything for the third scene.
So we can go ahead and
we can just swap this one out for concat.
And we'll see that this
behaves slightly differently.
Now what I want you to notice is it
doesn't matter when things get admitted
from the second one.
The combined stream won't even subscribe
to it until it is done with the first one.
So you see they are going, we don't get
anything from the second stream until we
finished everything on the first stream.
And then we begin listening
to the second one, right?
So merge these two streams,
but work on them in order.
Take the first thing,
finish it to completion.
Move to the second thing, finish it
to completion, so on and so forth.
We've got another one called race,
anyone have a lucky guess what race does?
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Yep, right,
well myths first in this case, so
it's kind of promise dot race.
Promise dot race is like listen,
here's a bunch of promises.
Whichever one of you resolves let's go for
it.
Race is also similar where it'd be cool.
Here's a whole bunch of observables.
Start with whichever one admits first,
I don't care.
So we'll swap that one out.
And let's say that first we're gonna
have it take 1500 milliseconds.
So, if you can kind of see that
the second one started first and
the first one could go on forever.
It doesn't care like the combined
one only talks to winners, right?
I know it doesn't talk to
anyone comes in second place.
And so as a way to say, okay,
I have these two things going
on whichever one admits first.
One of the things we will see later is
you wanna show a loading indicator but
maybe only after a certain amount of time,
right?
So hey, two seconds for loading indicator.
If the data comes back before two seconds,
the data wins.
If the data has not come
back after two seconds,
well then the loading indicator wins,
right?
Show the loading indicator, right?
You still need to do
something with the data and
we'll figure out how to manage
that all in a little bit.
And it could be cool, show the loading
indicator, then get the data,
then take everything down, right?
So this ability to merge things,
but also sequence them and
figure out the order of operations
between them becomes incredibly powerful.
Another one, you'll see sometimes
it's just called fork join.
It's not the most glamorous
name in the world.
And to kind of say that's also deprecate
in this case, but it is real common.
So it passed the bar in this case, so
what this one does is it waits for
them all to finish and gives you
an array of the last value of each.
So nothing in the combine stream.
They finish, I get the two last
values from each of them, right?
Cool, so we have different ways to mix and
match these.
Now where this becomes interesting is
when we kind of put them inside of other
observables.
We can kind of get a little bit
more powerful with that as well.